In 1963, an anthropologist named Edward T. Hall, realized
that there was no name for the examination of personal space,
so he invented one.
Because that's what anthropologists do.
He called it 'proxemics', and it struck
because it turned out to be a good way to make people think about abstract issues
as:
how do you react when someone comes too close too quickly?
What we have here is a 'robot-spinning dress'.
It is a dress with mechanical arms that react.
He responds when you come closer.
There are two proximity sensors here.
They are hidden in the balls that belong to the design.
They observe whether you come too close.
There are 12 pre-programmed situations.
And in fact he chooses one of these 12 situations
to make one of these animations.
Hall presents four distance zones in his book:
The public, the social, the personal and the intimate zone.
In the kind of life workshops where people are sent,
and in books for mediors,
these zones are considered a fact,
as 'this is how everyone behaves'.
But in Hall's own words: the zones were only a first estimate.
They were based on a small selection of highly educated Americans.
They were not representative of human behavior in general,
and were not meant to be that way either.
It was true rough stereotypes.
Actually, a large part of the book is rough stereotypes.
There is a whole section entitled 'The French',
that she describes as "sensually involved with each other."
I used 3D models to make this design.
I use a program called 'Maya', and then 3D-print it out.
It is made of nylon, with a technique called 'selective laser sintering.'
You see many difficult forms here that are very thin in certain places,
and they are very weak.
The technique of selective laser sintering means that
you have a big box of powder, in this case, nylon;
and you have your laser beam.
He sintering it out,
and he makes the model exactly as you made it.
Actually, when you get this design out,
you get it out of a big box full of powder,
and all the powder falls off.
The proximity sensors are in this dress,
so on the front of the dress,
and they observe a beam that is sent to the microcontroller
which is in the back piece.
As a scientific theory, the field of proxemics is very vague.
Hall thought it over once and called it in his book.
There are not so many studies with a lot of strict research and statistics.
It is primarily a series of observations and ideas.
But despite what some hyper-rationalist people think, they are also of value.
Being aware of the hidden rules that lead us,
ask why we do as we do,
can be a good way to find out how the world works.
And visualizing something that is not only invisible,
but actually an abstract concept?
That can be a good way to understand yourself.
With thanks to Anouk Wipprecht,
her dress is on show
at the Autodesk Gallery in San Francisco until March 2017.
See the description for more links
about her, the dress and the gallery.